---
title: Smallweb 0.11
sidebar: false
aside: false
prev: false
next: false
author: Achille Lacoin
tags:
  - release
---

## A new (optional) global config

You can now configure the smallweb host, port, and other global settings in a `~/.config/smallweb/config.json` file.

Here is the implicit default configuration if the file does not exist:

```json
{
    "host": "127.0.0.1",
    "port": 7777,
    "domains": {
        "*.localhost": "~/localhost/*"
    },
    "env": {
        "DENO_TLS_CA_STORE": "system"
    }
}
```

<!-- more -->

Smallweb also supports the following environment variables:

- `SMALLWEB_HOST`
- `SMALLWEB_PORT`

## Config Based Routing

You might have noticed the new `domains` key in the global config.

It's part of a new routing system that allows you to map domains to folders in your filesystem.

For example, you can map:

- `pomdtr.me` to `~/pomdtr.me`: All requests to `pomdtr.me` will be served from the `~/pomdtr.me` folder.
- `*.smallweb.run` to `~/smallweb.run/*`: All requests to `<app>.smallweb.run` will be served from the `~/smallweb.run/<app>` folder.
- `*.example.me` to `~/example.com`: All requests to `*.example.me` will be served from the `~/example.com` folder.

The config is live-reloaded, so you can change it on the fly.

I hope this new system will allows advanced users to handle more advanced routing scenarios, while keeping the simplicity of the original system.

This change also means that the notion of a "smallweb root" is now deprecated. You can put your smallweb apps anywhere in your filesystem.

## `smallweb open`

Smallweb open now works on top of directories.

To open the app from the current directory in your browser, you can run:

```sh
smallweb open .
```

Or do something like this if you have a blog stored at `~/localhost/blog`:

```sh
smallweb open ~/localhost/blog
```

## `smallweb create` -> `smallweb init`

`smallweb create` was replaced by `smallweb init`.

If you want `smallweb init`, you'll get an interactive prompt to create a new project.

You can also skip the prompts by passing the appropriate args and flags.

```sh
smallweb init ~/localhost/hono-app --template hono
```
