---
title: Smallweb 0.22
author: Achille Lacoin
tags:
    - release
---

Wait, what? Another release so soon? Wasn't the last one just a few days ago?

Yes, it was! But as part of my current work on `smallweb.live` (previously refered to as smallweb cloud), I had to make a few changes on `smallweb` cli. And as I'm onboarding a few users on the platform, I wanted to make sure the local development experience matched the remote one.

<!-- more -->

Want to join the `smallweb.live` alpha? Either register in the [waitlist](https://cloud.smallweb.run), or reach out to me on [discord](https://discord.smallweb.run). Active users on discord will get priority access!

## Redesigned smallweb config

Let me start with an example, showing every fields available in the new `$SMALLWEB_DIR/.smallweb/config.json` file:

```json
{
    // global configuration
    
    // main domain
    "domain": "smallweb.run",
    // additional wildcard domains
    "additionalDomains": ["example.com"],
    // authorized ssh keys for all apps
    "authorizedKeys": [
        "ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIEPR1N/c+B7OPXEraFx2r3UHViHFbZ2Afg8VQLQ59ZKd"
    ],
    // app-specific configuration
    "apps": {
        "vscode": {
            // wether the app is an admin or not
            "admin": true,
            // additional domains for this app
            "additionalDomains": ["vscode.pomdtr.me"],
            // authorized ssh keys for this app
            "authorizedKeys": [
                "ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIJW+GQk0KCvSreL+y3AZdtCu82+13E2eEled+sGRkIEv"
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

As you can see, the changes can be summarized as follows:

- authorized ssh keys are moved from `authorized_keys` files to the config file
- `customDomains` is now `additionalDomains`, and can be set globally or per app
- all of the app specific configs are moved to the `apps` object

Thanks to [@TayzenDev](https://github.com/tayzendev) for the help on this one!

## Removal of global environment variables

In the previous versions of smallweb, you could set global environment variables either in the `$SMALLWEB_DIR/.env` file or in the `$SMALLWEB_DIR/.smallweb/secrets.enc.env` file.

I think it was a bad design decision, and I'm quite sure global environment variables are not a good idea in the context of smallweb. Most of the time, you want to share env between a few specific apps, not all of them. And then, every apps has access to potentially sensitive information.

Copy-pasting the env variables between multiple apps is a much more secure and maintainable solution.

## Admin apps no longer have write access to the `.smallweb` directory

In the previous of smallweb, admin apps had access to the `.smallweb` directory, which is where the `config.json` file is stored. It meant that an admin app had the ability to update the configuration of the whole smallweb instance.

It had multiple drawbacks:

- a single admin app could break the whole smallweb instance
- an admin app was able to give admin permissions to any other app
- an admin app could add its own ssh keys to the `authorized_keys` file

All of those issues are now prevented.
