---
title: Smallweb 0.15 -
author: Achille Lacoin
tags:
    - release
draft: true
---

Hey there! I'm happy to announce the release of Smallweb `0.15`.

This release lays the foundation for the next big step for the project: Smallweb Cloud!

If you're interested in it, please add your email to the [waiting list](https://cloud.smallweb.run).

<!-- more -->

## New File Structure

From now on, the smallweb config lives inside the smallweb dir, at `.smallweb/config.json`.

In addition to this, sessions and tokens are now stored in the `.smallweb/data` dir.

It means that when you sync your smallweb dir using between machines using mutagen, the smallweb cli will act the same on both machines.

Ex:

- you'll be able to manage tokens using `smallweb token` on both machines
- `smallweb open [app]` will open the app in your default browser on both machines
- ...

## Easier access to the API from smallweb apps

From now on, every smallweb app can access the api by using the `SMALLWEB_API_URL` environment variable, without having to authenticate.

```ts
const resp = await fetch(new URL("/v0/app", Deno.env.get("SMALLWEB_API_URL")))
if (!resp.ok) {
    throw new Error("Failed to fetch apps")
}

const apps = await resp.json()
```

Behind the scenes, the API will run at `http://localhost:7778` by default. You can configure it using the `api.port` key in the smallweb config.

```json
// ~/smallweb/.smallweb/config.json
{
    "api.port": 8000
}
```

The REST api is not published by default to the outside world. However, if you want to access it from the outside, you can proxy it using a smallweb app:

```ts
// ~/smallweb/api/main.ts
import { createApi } from "jsr:@smallweb/api@0.3.2"

export default createApi()
```

Make sure to protect it behind authentication if you do this.

```json
{
    "private": true,
    "publicRoutes": [
        "/openapi.json",
    ]
}
```

## Relaxed permissions for clis

Previously, the `fetch` and `run` handlers were subject to the same permissions. They only had access to:

- the network
- reading the app directory
- environments variables set in `.env` files

This was problematic for app clis, since you oftentime want to:

- access the clipboard
- launch a subprocess (ex: to edit a file in the system editor)
- open a link in the browser

Since `run` entrypoints are only beeing called by the smallweb owner, I don't think restricting their permissions is necessary.

## Global .env

Instead of configuring the global environments variable from the smallweb config, you should now use a `.env` file at the root of the smallweb dir.

```sh
# ~/smallweb/.env
MY_SECRET=123
```

## Ability to pin an auth provider

Smallweb use lastlogin to protect private apps behind authentication.

Previously, autheticating required two steps: first you had to select an auth provider, then go through the auth flow.

From now on you can specify which auth provider you intend to use from the smallweb config:

```json
{
    "auth.provider": "google"
}
```

## Tunnels

If your using smallweb locally, you might still want to temporarely expose an app to the outside world.

You can use the new `smallweb tunnel [app]` command for this. This will create a public url for your app using [localhost.run](https://localhost.run) service.

## Remove some admin apps

`smallweb:api` and `smallweb:docs` are no longer valid entrypoints.

You can replace the `smallweb:api` entrypoint with [@smallweb/api](https://jsr.io/@smallweb/api).
