---
title: Smallweb 0.23
author: Achille Lacoin
tags:
    - release
---

This release was supposed to be published yesterday, but I accidentally spilled coffee on my laptop. I had to wait a full day for it to dry, but it seems to be working fine now. So here we are!

<!-- more -->

## Git Integration

Your smallweb instance can now act as a git server! First, make sure that your public ssh key is in the `authorizedKeys` field of your `config.json` file (either globally or per app).

Then, you can specify a new remote for your git repository, and push your code to your smallweb instance. The syntax of a smallweb remote is `ssh://<app>@<domain>/`. Here is an example:

```console
$ git remote add smallweb.run ssh://example@smallweb.run/
$ git push smallweb.run
Enumerating objects: 3, done.
Counting objects: 100% (3/3), done.
Writing objects: 100% (3/3), 214 bytes | 214.00 KiB/s, done.
Total 3 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0

Your app is available at https://example.smallweb.run

To ssh://smallweb.run/
 * [new branch]      main -> main
branch 'main' set up to track 'smallweb.run/main'.
```

Make sure that your repository use a `main` default branch, as it is the only one supported for now.

## Automatic detection of the smallweb directory

The `git` influence does not stop there. From now on, there is no longer a default smallweb directory. Instead, the `smallweb` cli will look for the `.smallweb` directory in the current directory, and in the parent directories.

If you want to override this behavior, you can use the `--dir` flag. This `--dir` flag can be leveraged in aliases, for example:

```bash
alias smallweb.run='smallweb --dir ~/smallweb/smallweb.run'
```

## Add back `smallweb open` command

The last release removed the `smallweb open` command, which was a mistake. It is now back, and can be used to open any app in the default browser.

## Remove typescript / jsx compilation in default file server

In the previous versions of smallweb, the default file server was able to compile typescript and jsx files. I decided to remove this feature, as it was quite buggy, and prevented smallweb apps to be easily portable to other platforms.
