---
title: Smallweb 0.21
author: Achille Lacoin
tags:
    - release
---

Hey! You might have noticed that the pace of smallweb releases has slowed down a bit on january. This is due to multiple reason:

- I've been focused on other open-source projects (ex: [sunbeam](https://sunbeam.pomdtr.me) and [tweety](https://github.com/pomdtr/tweety))
- I've iterated a lot on smallweb cloud (if you're not already on the waitlist, make sure to [signup](https://cloud.smallweb.run))

But I'm back with a new release, with small but important improvements!

<!-- more -->

## SSH improvements

### Fixed permissions in sftp server

Smallweb bundles an SSH server, allowing you to access the cli and edit your files from anywhere.

```sh
smallweb up --ssh-addr :2222
```

Previously, when using the sftp server (`sftp -P 2222 _@smallweb.run`), the working directory was set to the smallweb dir, but you were able to navigate outside of it.

In smallweb 0.21, I have fixed the permissions so that the smallweb dir is the root of the sftp filesystem.

If you access an app using `sftp -P 2222 <app>@smallweb.run`, you will only be able to access the app's directory and its subdirectories.

### Granular Permissions

In order to interact with the ssh server, your public key needs to be added to the `$SMALLWEB_DIR/.smallweb/authorized_keys` file.

This pattern is powerful, since it allows:

- multiple users to access the same smallweb instance
- push files to the server from your CI/CD pipeline
- ...

But previously, there was only one permission level: full access to the smallweb instance.

From now on, you can add a public key to a `$SMALLWEB_DIR/<app>/authorized_keys` file to only give write access to a specific app.

## Improved HTTPS support

### TLS-ALPN-01 for on-demand TLS

The on-demand TLS feature previously used the [HTTP-01 challenge](https://github.com/caddyserver/certmagic?tab=readme-ov-file#http-challenge) to verify domain ownership. This was problematic because it required the server to be reachable both on port 80 and 443.

I have now switched to the [TLS-ALPN-01 challenge](https://github.com/caddyserver/certmagic?tab=readme-ov-file#tls-alpn-challenge) which only requires the server to be reachable on port 443.

As a reminder, you can activate on-demand TLS by running:

```bash
smallweb up --on-demand-tls
```

### Support for acme-dns

The existing on-demand TLS feature has a significant drawback: each time you access a new domain, smallweb needs to request a new certificate from Let's Encrypt, which can be quite slow.

The smallweb architecture is better suited for [DNS-01 Challenges](https://github.com/caddyserver/certmagic?tab=readme-ov-file#dns-challenge), but they require you to integrate deeply with each DNS provider.

[Acme-dns](https://github.com/joohoi/acme-dns) allows you instead to delegate the DNS-01 challenge to a dedicated server.

```sh
# install goacmedns client
go install github.com/nrdcg/goacmedns/cmd/goacmedns@latest

# register the smallweb.run domain on a public acme-dns server
goacmedns -api https://auth.acme-dns.io -domain smallweb.run -storage acmedns-credentials.json
```

The generated acmedns-credentials.json will look like this:

```json
{
    "smallweb.run": {
        "fulldomain": "27aa9fe5-b63e-41a0-8756-f36cdd44c805.auth.acme-dns.io",
        "subdomain": "27aa9fe5-b63e-41a0-8756-f36cdd44c805",
        "username": "a30660c8-54af-4cc1-8ede-ad07cfb0bfee",
        "password": "Yru99p5X0KlBuHNBnWuT6IjQZS4yUAR6rFqnUOvw",
        "server_url": "https://auth.acme-dns.io"
    }
}
```

You'll then need to update your DNS records to point to the acme-dns server.

```sh
_acme-challenge.smallweb.run. CNAME b31cb741-2b49-4a47-8023-d7ebd829a425.auth.acme-dns.io.
```

Finally, pass the `--acmedns-credentials` flag to the `smallweb up` command:

```sh
smallweb up --acmedns-credentials acmedns-credentials.json
```

smallweb will uses the provided credentials to update the DNS records on the `27aa9fe5-b63e-41a0-8756-f36cdd44c805.auth.acme-dns.io` TXT record when requesting a new certificate. 

Since `_acme-challenge.smallweb.run` is a CNAME to `27aa9fe5-b63e-41a0-8756-f36cdd44c805.auth.acme-dns.io`, the DNS-01 challenge will be successful.

## Improved handling of SPAs

By default, the smallweb file-server is not suited for Single Page Applications (SPAs) because it does not serve the `index.html` file when the requested file is not found.

In smallweb 0.21, you can now fixes the behavior by creating the following `_redirects` file at the root of your app:

```sh
/*  /index.html  200
```

## Removed some core commands

With smallweb support for plugins, I have decided removed a bunch of core commands that were previously available in the CLI.

- `smallweb service`
- `smallweb sync`
- `smallweb secrets`
- `smallweb upgrade`
- `smallweb changelog`

Most of those commands were just wrappers on top of existing tools (ex: `mutagen`, `launchctl/systemd`, `sops`...).

The `smallweb upgrade` command was problematic when you installed smallweb using `brew` and I have decided to remove it.

You can easily recreate it by creating the following script at `~/smallweb/.smallweb/plugins/upgrade.sh`:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

set -euo pipefail

curl -sSfL https://install.smallweb.run | sh
```

## Community Apps

- [smallblog](https://github.com/tayzendev/smallblog) by [@tayzendev](https://github.com/tayzendev) was updated, with an improved routing system!
- If you're looking to protect your smallweb apps behind github oauth, take a look at [@pomdtr/github-auth](https://jsr.io/@pomdtr/github-auth)
